Improve Your Diet - The food you eat plays a key aspect in determining your overall health and immunity. Eat low carb diets, as this will help control high blood sugar and pressure.  A low carb diet will help slow down diabetes and focus on a protein-rich diet to keep you in good shape.
Don’t Compromise on Sleep- Good snooze time for 7-8 hours is the best way to help your body build immunity; lesser sleep will leave you tired and impair your brain activity. The lack of sleep will prevent the body from resting and this will impair other bodily functions that will have a direct impact on your immunity.
Stay Hydrated- Drink up to 8-10 glasses of water every day, to stay hydrated. Hydration will help flush out the toxins from the body and lower the chances of flu. Other alternatives include juices made of citrus fruits and coconut water, to beat the heat.
Don’t Skip on Exercise - A good diet should be followed by an exercise routine. Remember to exercise regularly; even light exercise will go a long way in releasing the toxins from your body. It is recommended to exercise for 30 to 45 minutes, depending on your stamina. If you have not started exercising yet, then it is a good time to start.
Destress Yourself - These are testing times, and a prolonged period of staying indoors has its implications on your mental wellbeing. The growing anxiety around the pandemic is another concern that is affecting millions across the globe. Practice meditation, Avoid Smoking, alcohol and other addictive substances

Supplements and immunity boosting foods
Citrus fruits: Vitamin C in limes, lemons, oranges, and grapefruit is great for immunity. Research has shown that vitamin C boosts immunity and defends the body from infections. It also helps in fighting colds and wheezing.
Yogurt: Yogurt is a natural probiotic and aids in the formation of good bacteria in our body. Remember, it has to be freshly made. If you have sore throat regardless of the cause, yogurt might worsen it but for better immunity, you need probiotics so you can resort to supplements.
Turmeric: The golden spice turmeric is known for its anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. Curcumin, the compound present in turmeric is a very potent agent and aids in healing of wounds and infections. This is the reason, it is often suggested to have turmeric milk.
Natural Anti-virus Foods: Tulsi leaves, star anise (a spice), garlic, and ginger are some of the natural anti-virus food items which gives protection from virus. You can also take three to four pieces of star anise, give it two to three boils and have it warm. You can have ginger and amla juice. You can also have garlic; take one garlic clove, mash it, and expose it to air for five minutes so that its compound called allicin which has potent medicinal properties gets activated and then have it.
Zinc: It is another nutrient that helps your immune system and metabolism function. An individual can either take Zinc supplements or inculcate in their diet through cashews, pumpkin seeds, chickpeas, among others.

