Corona has brought with it a wave of negative outcomes, terrible illness and death, mental, physical and financial insecurity but it also highlighted some important life lessons. There are various life lessons we learned from the COVID-19 outbreak can be summarized as below:
We all have spent the maximum time with our family in last 3 months. We have realised how important are those people doing manual labour to facilitate our life and to whom we never gave such importance such as maid, driver, gardener, car cleaner, garbage collector, street cleaning staff.
Social distancing can be very difficult, but it can also teach you a lot about yourself. You learn how to keep yourself busy.
Staying home has forced many people to learn, re-learn or re-ignite their love for reading, singing, cooking and many other activities. One of these is cooking which has been enjoyed the most. Learning how to cook is one of the most important skills a person can have. You depend on yourself. It teaches you self-sustainability and you save a lot of money.
Covid outbreak has improved gender equality in reference to equal task responsibility among the family members.
If this scary time has taught us anything, it’s that doctors and researchers, nurses will be the ones who get us out of this mess. They are the ones working day and night to drive the recovery of the world. There has been change in role models from actors, cricketers, athletes to doctors, nurses and administrators.
The right to Internet access, also known as the right to broadband, should be considered a human right. During times like these, it is especially important to be able to contact family, friends and work from home and give your best. Internet is the only way to do so.
You should wash your hands, whether there’s a virus or not. General hygiene is always important. Not just when there is a virus. You should know the drill by now. Wet your hands. Lather them with soap. Scrub for 20 seconds. Rinse off.
You can still lead a happy life without outings, malls, movies, vacations.
